+ #pulse: overwhelmed, but this is the test. At this point, you just need to say, "I'm going to finish this by lunch" and do so. You've done this before. 1000 words is not a lot. Reverse outline, get the arguments in bullets first, refine once, and convert to text. 
	+ Get the LOs down
		+ #socialorder : 
			+ Effectively historicizes evidence from primary and secondary sources to critically analyze the local and global impact of different forms of thought as tools to order societies; effectively analyzes how these forms of thought are impacted by societal developments; mounts an evidence-based historical argument that demonstrates the significance of this phenomenon.
		+ #identityanddifference:
			+ Effectively historicizes evidence from primary and secondary sources to critically analyze the sources, function, and impact of shifting perceptions of racial, ethnic, gender, and religious differences; mounts an evidence-based historical argument that demonstrates the significance of this phenomenon.
		+ #historicalargument
			+ Crafts a compelling historical argument based on thorough analysis of primary and secondary sources that engages critically with the 5 C's of historical analysis and demonstrates a deep grasp of question-framing for historical analysis by explaining why the argument is significant; (when applicable) develops an original historical question through the nuanced analysis of primary and secondary sources and provides a thorough justification for this question.
		+ #historicalsilences 
			+ Effectively analyzes silences and marginalized voices in the making and recording of history and provides a robust explanation of the significance of these silences.


[[Monuments of a Global Past]]
Sources

- Socialist Mobilities: Crossing New Terrains in Vietnamese Migration Histories (Schwenkel, 2015)
    - Explores personal histories of 'socialist mobilities' experienced during the Cold War and suggests a transnational framework for understanding the Vietnamese diaspora that decenters the West. 
    - Very little study conducted, or conducted in English language.
    - " Knowledge of the diaspora thus remains strikingly bifurcated along a Cold War-inflected, East–West axis: while ‘transnational Vietnam’ addresses networked flows between Vietnam and the West (and, increasingly broader Asia), the former socialist East remains largely off the grid."
        - Not just "one" diaspora
    - *"collectivist nature of these mobilities encourages us to think beyond migration as the individual (family-based), self-interested initiative that the literature tends to describe."*
    - Offers these histories through profiles of architecture students across three times: post colonial, wartime, postwar
        - Studied architecutre in GDR, returned to Vietnam
            - students thought to emulate "progressive ideas of scientific socialism" : a civic duty to return, advance Vietnam into a modern socialism. 
            - *"The Vietnamese government did not want an image of its students enjoying themselves abroad while their schoolmates were dying on the battlefield"*
            - *""‘Mutual aid’ labour agreements authorised a workforce of nearly 300 000 Vietnamese to go abroad in the 1980s"*
            - *"Economic, rather than political connections (or, ideally, both) became a way for ‘ordinary people of little worth,’ as the disgruntled architect referred to himself, to secure upward mobility."*
        - This pattern of migration reflect the decline of socialism, and perhaps in turn a transition from collectivism to individualism.


- Bazaar Pagodas – Transnational Religion, Postsocialist Marketplaces and Vietnamese Migrant Women in Berlin (Hüwelmeier, 2013)
    - Storefront as a momument to diasporic identities
    - People are the mobile agents of transnational flows of political, economic and cultural ideas and commodities. 
    - Transnational: Consider not what is sent here, but what is sent back?
        - How do these flows affect culture over time?
	- The flow of political, religious and economic ideas therefore need to be considered with individuals as the unit of analysis instead of the nation, with both the effects of one to another, and another to one.
	    - Standard historical arguement: GDR, through bilateral trade agreements ... 
	    - There is no "the" Vietnamese community. There is no one homogenous culture, but there is also not just one narrative of migration and diaspora. 
	- Schwenkel (2015) provides a framework of seeing migration as having different objectives, over different times.  
	- In this essay, two such agents:
	    - A female lay buddhist who enters as a "boat person" - refugees of the American war to West Berlin - and her assimilation into post-socialist Berlin
		  - What impact does the history of migration have on gendered religious identities? 
			- Most worshippers were women in their 40s and 50s. 
		  - How does worship/devotion connect to migration? 
			- Religion as a way to socialise into a new society. 
	    - A student architect during socialist Berlin and wartime Vietnam, aspiring to return to Vietnam with ideals of scientific socialism and nation building. 
	  + Buddhism to find support: acquiring legal residence status, marital issues associated with raising vhildren without the same values
	  + Commune with others in the same situation
	  + Becomes a way of social transformation. 
	   + Changing gender roles: no ‘overall hegemonic structure of gender’, a structure ‘that implicates the subjugation of women to men by maintaining inherently unequal social structures.
		    + Men little religious knowledge 
		    + women as being main breadwinners


+ [Hard times for Vietnamese Germans](http://news.bbc.co.uk/2/hi/europe/4713876.stm)
 + A journalistic introduction to the Cold War migration; the East Germany socialist state creates a class of *Vertragsarbeiter* (contract workers) in the 1980s to staff state-run industries.
  + GDR in bilateral labour agreement with the Socialist Republic of Vietnam. 
   + To "staff the jobs they did not want": blue collar, sure. Site of Dong Xuan Center in the site of an old GDR factory is a symbol of the first migrational history. 
   + But: Labor agreeements to the end of advancing socialist ideas, and in that sense they are bilateral. 
    + Ramen and red bean paste are sent here, but what is sent back? 
  + In the territory of a former GDR factory complex, named after Dong Xuan Center in Hanoi. 
 + The fall of the Berlin Wall was a moment of disenfranchisment - lost legal residence status.  Many Vertragsarbeiter taking to underpaid work selling textiles from Asia. 
 + Under this extended pressure of unemployment, these workers eventually started their own businesses. 
 + The permanence of owning businesses led to cultural integration. Buddhism was a huge part of that. 
  + How does a cities historical division shape the cultural integration of a diasporic community? 

+ [Berlin's little Vietnam reflects divided city](https://www.dw.com/en/berlins-little-vietnam-reflects-divided-city/a-17518577)
 + Largest east-asian community in Germany
 + Two waves of migration, two diasporic communities
  + The "boat people" fleeing the communist regime, to West Germany, 
   + 38,000 between 1975 and 1986
  + and the Vertragsarbeiter
   + 60,000 in 80s. 

+ [Spotted By Locals: Don Xuan Center](https://www.spottedbylocals.com/berlin/dong-xuan-center/)
 + Nguyen van Hien, founded the center on the territory of a former GDR factory complex and named it after the famous Dong Xuan
