[[Capstone]]

+ Passive: **Abundant Housing**/*Quality Education/Good Jobs*
	+ **Indicators**
		+ `# of evictions/year`
		+ `Median 1 bedroom cost/year`
		+ `Home Ownership`
		+ `Homeless Population`
		+ `New housing units / quarter`
		+ `Median Price to create a house`
		+ `Average sale price`
		+ `Jobs Created/Year`
		+ **`Percentage of Zoning for Single Family Housing**`
+ Interact: Proposals
	+ Policy A: **"5,000" new units by 2023.** 
		+ 3,500/5000 since 2020 PolicyHFA :: Dealine
	+ Predictions 
		+ Claims: New housing benefits the rich
+ Affect: vote/donate/predict/share/question
	+  #todo: **Money Markets**


+ Problem | Solution :: #todo: update lingo around affective loop
+ Suggest an Indicator
+ Vote at a high level

+ 5,600/6,000 as proposed by PropA
	+ **When**: 2020
	+ **Due**: 2025
		+ Timeliness for prediction markets


**Map**
1. Viz of geospatial data in context
	1. Interact with it
2. Trend in context (Scatter/Line ; Hist)
3. **Single number in context**



> Map Component
+ #designsolution: frame the interface against a map. Fades out when needed. 


> Widget Indicator Component
+ #designproblem: most dashboards have **different views** that ultimately rely on the same stuctured data. There is no need to see all at once, but you may want flexibility to move in and out of those views. Ultimately, an indicator distills to a display: 
	+ **Indicator**
		+ **Current Value**
			+ EIther as a single value
			+ Or a proportion
		+ **Change over time**
			+ Where a line/bar comes in
		+ **Comparison to other cities/Benchmarks**
			+ Where the race to the top metrics come in, when available. 
	+ **Rate of change/update**
		+ "now", "Live" :: glow?
	+ **Share/Embed**

+ #designquestion 
	+ How do we bundle the three in a consistent format? 
		+ Change over time and race to the top are clearer-cut. 
	+ How do we toggle between views, based on what we are asking. How do we create a **motivated user flow: one at a time?** 
	+ How do we use questions to motivate the analysis? 







+ Contact Sophie
+ Finish makeup work


[[2022-04-14]] #worklog
+ #pusle: very focused on this right now. Looking at the mockups, it looks like
	+ **adding and iterating on actual examples** is the way to go. Start by joining Rhys' thing with the other guy's demo. 
		+ Say **"Abundant Housing"**
	+ this is a great place to work. Large window. 
		+ Think about cognition and [[the Stack]] : tests dispel cognitive load. You don't want to think about whether what you're writing is correct. You set the constraints and work backwards. 
+ Deciding on the user flow, and #visualisation of operating on different scales. 
	+ Passive: select the **Goal** you want to view
		+ Being opinionated means we decide the **goals** rather than the areas (People, Place, Power)
			+ There is a difference between **housing** and **abundant** housing
				+ Policies designed for abundance
					+ What makes us suited for this? 
+ Steal from an exisitng component library and start standardizing
	+ Font/Spacing
+ [ ] Work on Passive High-Level Hello
	+ [ ] Then - trail of searchable Indicarors, with a fixed proposal
		+ Do these need descriptions? Or: click and test. 
+ [ ] Opens up Problem Viewport: exposes more info, but still compact
+ [ ] Solutions, with progress
	+ [ ] Progress Bar: ProposalA (3000 promised by 2200, then what)
+ [ ] Solutions: contribute (!)
	+ [ ] 1$ -> 1 Job :: map cause to effect, with verification :-> on chain

